This document is README for aescm 0.31 (either README or doc/readme.html).

Aescm is a multilingual filter program to preprocess code chunks in documents.
Here multilingual does not mean many natural languages but many computer
languages. Chunks between <?TAG and ?> are evaluated and expressions between <?
TAG:d and ?> are replaced with their evaluated value, where TAG is a namespace
defined in a configuration file. Its default language is Scheme and the
namespace is scm.

This tool is still in alpha state, and the interface or the format of
configuration files may be changed. The stable version is escm 1.1, which is a
tool for Scheme.

Aescm in fact converts a document to a program and makes it executed by a
backend interpreter. This mechanism allows us to use it with most script
languages.

Since aescm 0.30, many experimental features have been removed, and the tool
has been divided into a filter tool and a CGI tool. By default, only the filter
tool is compiled and installed. To compile and install the CGI tool, see 
cgi.html.

Installation

You'd better specify your favorite scheme interpreter's name and option
arguments with --with-scheme option. Some information is found in 
interpreter.html. The following example is for Gauche:

    ./configure --with-scheme="gosh -b"
    make
    make install
    

Environment Variables

You can overwrite the backend interpreter by environment vairable ESCM_BACKEND.
Command line options for some popular Schme implementations are listed in doc/
interpreter.html. You can also specify the default scripting languge with
environment variable ESCM_DEFAULT.

Language Configuration Files

The language configuration files find themselves in $(datadir)/aescm/lang (e.g.
/usr/local/share/aescm/lang). You can edit them to change translation rules.
and backend interpreters. To edit or add a configuration file consult doc/
gimmick.html


This document was converted from readme.escm on Sun Dec 26 05:31:04 UTC 2004.
The backend interpreter is gosh -b -I.. Please send bug reports or comments to 
the mailing list or tagga@tsuda.ac.jp.
